Chatbot

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Chatbot (disambiguation).

Parts of this article (those related to everything) need to be updated. The reason given is: this article is using citations from 1970 and virtually all claims about conversational capabilities are at least ten years out of date (for example the Turing test was arguably made obsolete years ago by transformer models). Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (February 2023)

A virtual assistant chatbot

The 1966 ELIZA chatbot
A chatbot or chatterbot is a software application used to conduct an online chat conversation via text or text-to-speech, in lieu of providing direct contact with a live human agent.[1][2] Designed to convincingly simulate the way a human would behave as a conversational partner, chatbot systems typically require continuous tuning and testing, and many in production remain unable to adequately converse, although in 2012 none of them could pass the standard Turing test.[3] The term "ChatterBot" was originally coined by Michael Mauldin (creator of the first Verbot) in 1994 to describe these conversational programs.[4]

Chatbots are used in dialog systems for various purposes including customer service, request routing, or information gathering. While some chatbot applications use extensive word-classification processes, natural-language processors, and sophisticated AI, others simply scan for general keywords and generate responses using common phrases obtained from an associated library or database.

Most chatbots are accessed on-line via website popups or through virtual assistants. They can be classified into usage categories that include: commerce (e-commerce via chat), education, entertainment, finance, health, news, and productivity.[5]

Background
In 1950, Alan Turing's famous article "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" was published,[6] which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence. This criterion depends on the ability of a computer program to impersonate a human in a real-time written conversation with a human judge to the extent that the judge is unable to distinguish reliably—on the basis of the conversational content alone—between the program and a real human. The notoriety of Turing's proposed test stimulated great interest in Joseph Weizenbaum's program ELIZA, published in 1966, which seemed to be able to fool users into believing that they were conversing with a real human. However Weizenbaum himself did not claim that ELIZA was genuinely intelligent, and the introduction to his paper presented it more as a debunking exercise:

[In] artificial intelligence ... machines are made to behave in wondrous ways, often sufficient to dazzle even the most experienced observer. But once a particular program is unmasked, once its inner workings are explained ... its magic crumbles away; it stands revealed as a mere collection of procedures ... The observer says to himself "I could have written that". With that thought, he moves the program in question from the shelf marked "intelligent", to that reserved for curios ... The object of this paper is to cause just such a re-evaluation of the program about to be "explained". Few programs ever needed it more.[7]

ELIZA's key method of operation (copied by chatbot designers ever since) involves the recognition of clue words or phrases in the input, and the output of the corresponding pre-prepared or pre-programmed responses that can move the conversation forward in an apparently meaningful way (e.g. by responding to any input that contains the word 'MOTHER' with 'TELL ME MORE ABOUT YOUR FAMILY').[8] Thus an illusion of understanding is generated, even though the processing involved has been merely superficial. ELIZA showed that such an illusion is surprisingly easy to generate because human judges are so ready to give the benefit of the doubt when conversational responses are capable of being interpreted as "intelligent".

Interface designers have come to appreciate that humans' readiness to interpret computer output as genuinely conversational—even when it is actually based on rather simple pattern-matching—can be exploited for useful purposes. Most people prefer to engage with programs that are human-like, and this gives chatbot-style techniques a potentially useful role in interactive systems that need to elicit information from users, as long as that information is relatively straightforward and falls into predictable categories. Thus, for example, online help systems can usefully employ chatbot techniques to identify the area of help that users require, potentially providing a "friendlier" interface than a more formal search or menu system. This sort of usage holds the prospect of moving chatbot technology from Weizenbaum's "shelf ... reserved for curios" to that marked "genuinely useful computational methods".

Development
Among the most notable early chatbots are ELIZA (1966) and PARRY (1972).[9][10][11][12] More recent notable programs include A.L.I.C.E., Jabberwacky and D.U.D.E (Agence Nationale de la Recherche and CNRS 2006). While ELIZA and PARRY were used exclusively to simulate typed conversation, many chatbots now include other functional features, such as games and web searching abilities. In 1984, a book called The Policeman's Beard is Half Constructed was published, allegedly written by the chatbot Racter (though the program as released would not have been capable of doing so).[13]

One pertinent field of AI research is natural-language processing. Usually, weak AI fields employ specialized software or programming languages created specifically for the narrow function required. For example, A.L.I.C.E. uses a markup language called AIML,[2] which is specific to its function as a conversational agent, and has since been adopted by various other developers of, so-called, Alicebots. Nevertheless, A.L.I.C.E. is still purely based on pattern matching techniques without any reasoning capabilities, the same technique ELIZA was using back in 1966. This is not strong AI, which would require sapience and logical reasoning abilities.

Jabberwacky learns new responses and context based on real-time user interactions, rather than being driven from a static database. Some more recent chatbots also combine real-time learning with evolutionary algorithms that optimize their ability to communicate based on each conversation held. Still, there is currently no general purpose conversational artificial intelligence, and some software developers focus on the practical aspect, information retrieval.

Chatbot competitions focus on the Turing test or more specific goals. Two such annual contests are the Loebner Prize and The Chatterbox Challenge (the latter has been offline since 2015, however, materials can still be found from web archives).[14]

DBpedia created a chatbot during the GSoC of 2017.[15][16][17] It can communicate through Facebook Messenger.

In November 2022, OpenAI released ChatGPT, an AI chatbot that interacts with the general public through conversation. Despite criticism of its accuracy, ChatGPT has gained attention for its detailed responses and historical knowledge.

Application
See also: Virtual assistant
Messaging apps
Many companies' chatbots run on messaging apps or simply via SMS. They are used for B2C customer service, sales and marketing.[18]

In 2016, Facebook Messenger allowed developers to place chatbots on their platform. There were 30,000 bots created for Messenger in the first six months, rising to 100,000 by September 2017.[19]

Since September 2017, this has also been as part of a pilot program on WhatsApp. Airlines KLM and Aeroméxico both announced their participation in the testing;[20][21][22][23] both airlines had previously launched customer services on the Facebook Messenger platform.

The bots usually appear as one of the user's contacts, but can sometimes act as participants in a group chat.

Many banks, insurers, media companies, e-commerce companies, airlines, hotel chains, retailers, health care providers, government entities and restaurant chains have used chatbots to answer simple questions, increase customer engagement,[24] for promotion, and to offer additional ways to order from them.[25]

A 2017 study showed 4% of companies used chatbots.[26] According to a 2016 study, 80% of businesses said they intended to have one by 2020.[27]

As part of company apps and websites
Previous generations of chatbots were present on company websites, e.g. Ask Jenn from Alaska Airlines which debuted in 2008[28] or Expedia's virtual customer service agent which launched in 2011.[28][29] The newer generation of chatbots includes IBM Watson-powered "Rocky", introduced in February 2017 by the New York City-based e-commerce company Rare Carat to provide information to prospective diamond buyers.[30][31]

Chatbot sequences
Used by marketers to script sequences of messages, very similar to an Autoresponder sequence. Such sequences can be triggered by user opt-in or the use of keywords within user interactions. After a trigger occurs a sequence of messages is delivered until the next anticipated user response. Each user response is used in the decision tree to help the chatbot navigate the response sequences to deliver the correct response message.

Company internal platforms
Other companies explore ways they can use chatbots internally, for example for Customer Support, Human Resources, or even in Internet-of-Things (IoT) projects. Overstock.com, for one, has reportedly launched a chatbot named Mila to automate certain simple yet time-consuming processes when requesting sick leave.[32] Other large companies such as Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Renault and Citroën are now using automated online assistants instead of call centres with humans to provide a first point of contact. A SaaS chatbot business ecosystem has been steadily growing since the F8 Conference when Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg unveiled that Messenger would allow chatbots into the app.[33] In large companies, like in hospitals and aviation organizations, IT architects are designing reference architectures for Intelligent Chatbots that are used to unlock and share knowledge and experience in the organization more efficiently, and reduce the errors in answers from expert service desks significantly.[34] These Intelligent Chatbots make use of all kinds of artificial intelligence like image moderation and natural-language understanding (NLU), natural-language generation (NLG), machine learning and deep learning.

Customer service
Many high-tech banking organizations are looking to integrate automated AI-based solutions such as chatbots into their customer service in order to provide faster and cheaper assistance to their clients who are becoming increasingly comfortable with technology. In particular, chatbots can efficiently conduct a dialogue, usually replacing other communication tools such as email, phone, or SMS. In banking, their major application is related to quick customer service answering common requests, as well as transactional support.

Several studies report significant reduction in the cost of customer services, expected to lead to billions of dollars of economic savings in the next ten years.[35] In 2019, Gartner predicted that by 2021, 15% of all customer service interactions globally will be handled completely by AI.[36] A study by Juniper Research in 2019 estimates retail sales resulting from chatbot-based interactions will reach $112 billion by 2023.[37]

Since 2016, when Facebook allowed businesses to deliver automated customer support, e-commerce guidance, content, and interactive experiences through chatbots, a large variety of chatbots were developed for the Facebook Messenger platform.[38]

In 2016, Russia-based Tochka Bank launched the world's first Facebook bot for a range of financial services, including a possibility of making payments.[39]

In July 2016, Barclays Africa also launched a Facebook chatbot, making it the first bank to do so in Africa.[40]

The France's third-largest bank by total assets[41] Société Générale launched their chatbot called SoBot in March 2018. While 80% of users of the SoBot expressed their satisfaction after having tested it, Société Générale deputy director Bertrand Cozzarolo stated that it will never replace the expertise provided by a human advisor. [42]

The advantages of using chatbots for customer interactions in banking include cost reduction, financial advice, and 24/7 support.[43][44]

Healthcare
See also: Artificial intelligence in healthcare
Chatbots are also appearing in the healthcare industry.[45][46] A study suggested that physicians in the United States believed that chatbots would be most beneficial for scheduling doctor appointments, locating health clinics, or providing medication information.[47]

Whatsapp has teamed up with the World Health Organisation (WHO) to make a chatbot service that answers users’ questions on COVID-19.[48]

In 2020, The Indian Government launched a chatbot called MyGov Corona Helpdesk,[49] that worked through Whatsapp and helped people access information about the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.[50][51]

Certain patient groups are still reluctant to use chatbots. A mixed-methods study showed that people are still hesitant to use chatbots for their healthcare due to poor understanding of the technological complexity, the lack of empathy, and concerns about cyber-security.[52] The analysis showed that while 6% had heard of a health chatbot and 3% had experience of using it, 67% perceived themselves as likely to use one within 12 months. The majority of participants would use a health chatbot for seeking general health information (78%), booking a medical appointment (78%), and looking for local health services (80%). However, a health chatbot was perceived as less suitable for seeking results of medical tests and seeking specialist advice such as sexual health. The analysis of attitudinal variables showed that most participants reported their preference for discussing their health with doctors (73%) and having access to reliable and accurate health information (93%). While 80% were curious about new technologies that could improve their health, 66% reported only seeking a doctor when experiencing a health problem and 65% thought that a chatbot was a good idea. Interestingly, 30% reported dislike about talking to computers, 41% felt it would be strange to discuss health matters with a chatbot and about half were unsure if they could trust the advice given by a chatbot. Therefore, perceived trustworthiness, individual attitudes towards bots, and dislike for talking to computers are the main barriers to health chatbots.

Politics
See also: Government by algorithm § AI politicians
In New Zealand, the chatbot SAM – short for Semantic Analysis Machine[53] (made by Nick Gerritsen of Touchtech[54]) – has been developed. It is designed to share its political thoughts, for example on topics such as climate change, healthcare and education, etc. It talks to people through Facebook Messenger.[55][56][57][58]

In 2022, the chatbot "Leader Lars" or "Leder Lars" was nominated for The Synthetic Party to run in the Danish parliamentary election,[59] and was built by the artist collective Computer Lars.[60] Leader Lars differed from earlier virtual politicians by leading a political party and by not pretending to be an objective candidate.[61] This chatbot engaged in critical discussions on politics with users from around the world.[62]

In India, the state government has launched a chatbot for its Aaple Sarkar platform,[63] which provides conversational access to information regarding public services managed.[64][65]

Toys
Chatbots have also been incorporated into devices not primarily meant for computing, such as toys.[66]

Hello Barbie is an Internet-connected version of the doll that uses a chatbot provided by the company ToyTalk,[67] which previously used the chatbot for a range of smartphone-based characters for children.[68] These characters' behaviors are constrained by a set of rules that in effect emulate a particular character and produce a storyline.[69]

The My Friend Cayla doll was marketed as a line of 18-inch (46 cm) dolls which uses speech recognition technology in conjunction with an Android or iOS mobile app to recognize the child's speech and have a conversation. It, like the Hello Barbie doll, attracted controversy due to vulnerabilities with the doll's Bluetooth stack and its use of data collected from the child's speech.

IBM's Watson computer has been used as the basis for chatbot-based educational toys for companies such as CogniToys[66] intended to interact with children for educational purposes.[70]

Malicious use
Malicious chatbots are frequently used to fill chat rooms with spam and advertisements, by mimicking human behavior and conversations or to entice people into revealing personal information, such as bank account numbers. They were commonly found on Yahoo! Messenger, Windows Live Messenger, AOL Instant Messenger and other instant messaging protocols. There has also been a published report of a chatbot used in a fake personal ad on a dating service's website.[71]

Tay, an AI chatbot that learns from previous interaction, caused major controversy due to it being targeted by internet trolls on Twitter. The bot was exploited, and after 16 hours began to send extremely offensive Tweets to users. This suggests that although the bot learned effectively from experience, adequate protection was not put in place to prevent misuse.[72]

If a text-sending algorithm can pass itself off as a human instead of a chatbot, its message would be more credible. Therefore, human-seeming chatbots with well-crafted online identities could start scattering fake news that seems plausible, for instance making false claims during an election. With enough chatbots, it might be even possible to achieve artificial social proof.[73][74]

Limitations of chatbots
The creation and implementation of chatbots is still a developing area, heavily related to artificial intelligence and machine learning, so the provided solutions, while possessing obvious advantages, have some important limitations in terms of functionalities and use cases. However, this is changing over time.

The most common limitations are listed below:[75]

As the database, used for output generation, is fixed and limited, chatbots can fail while dealing with an unsaved query.[44]
A chatbot's efficiency highly depends on language processing and is limited because of irregularities, such as accents and mistakes.
Chatbots are unable to deal with multiple questions at the same time and so conversation opportunities are limited.[75]
Chatbots require a large amount of conversational data to train. Generative models, which are based on deep learning algorithms to generate new responses word by word based on user input, are usually trained on a large dataset of natural-language phrases.[2]
Chatbots have difficulty managing non-linear conversations that must go back and forth on a topic with a user.[76]
As it happens usually with technology-led changes in existing services, some consumers, more often than not from older generations, are uncomfortable with chatbots due to their limited understanding, making it obvious that their requests are being dealt with by machines.[75]
Chatbots and jobs
Chatbots are increasingly present in businesses and often are used to automate tasks that do not require skill-based talents. With customer service taking place via messaging apps as well as phone calls, there are growing numbers of use-cases where chatbot deployment gives organizations a clear return on investment. Call center workers may be particularly at risk from AI-driven chatbots.[77]

Chatbot jobs

Chatbot developers create, debug, and maintain applications that automate customer services or other communication processes. Their duties include reviewing and simplifying code when needed. They may also help companies implement bots in their operations.

A study by Forrester (June 2017) predicted that 25% of all jobs would be impacted by AI technologies by 2019.[78]

See also
icon	Linguistics portal
Applications of artificial intelligence
Artificial philosophy
Autonomous agent
ChatGPT (from OpenAI)
Conversational user interface
Eugene Goostman
Friendly artificial intelligence
Hybrid intelligent system
Intelligent agent
Internet bot
List of chatbots
Multi-agent system
Natural language processing
Social bot
Software agent
Software bot
Twitterbot
Virtual assistant
References
 "What is a chatbot?". techtarget.com. Retrieved 30 January 2017.
 Caldarini, Guendalina; Jaf, Sardar; McGarry, Kenneth (2022). "A Literature Survey of Recent Advances in Chatbots". Information. MDPI. 13 (1): 41. doi:10.3390/info13010041.
 Luka Bradeško, Dunja Mladenić. "A Survey of Chabot Systems through a Loebner Prize Competition". S2CID 39745939.
 Mauldin 1994
 "2017 Messenger Bot Landscape, a Public Spreadsheet Gathering 1000+ Messenger Bots". 3 May 2017.
 (Turing 1950)
 (Weizenbaum 1966, p. 36)
 (Weizenbaum 1966, pp. 44–5)
 GüzeldereFranchi 1995
 Computer History Museum 2006
 Sondheim 1997
 Network Working Group 1973—Transcript of a session between Parry and Eliza. (This is not the dialogue from the ICCC, which took place October 24–26, 1972, whereas this session is from September 18, 1972.)
 http://everything2.com/title/The+Policeman%2527s+Beard+is+Half+Constructed 13 November 1999
 "Chatroboter simulieren Menschen".
 "DBpedia Chatbot". chat.dbpedia.org.
 "Meet the DBpedia Chatbot | DBpedia". wiki.dbpedia.org. 22 August 2018.
 "Meet the DBpedia Chatbot". August 22, 2018.
 Beaver, Laurie (July 2016). The Chatbots Explainer. BI Intelligence.
 "Facebook Messenger Hits 100,000 bots". 2017-04-18. Retrieved 2017-09-22.
 "KLM claims airline first with WhatsApp Business Platform". www.phocuswire.com.
 Forbes Staff (26 October 2017). "Aeroméxico te atenderá por WhatsApp durante 2018". Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 Redacción (27 October 2017). "Podrás hacer 'check in' y consultar tu vuelo con Aeroméxico a través de WhatsApp". Huffington Post. Archived from the original on 10 March 2018. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 "Building for People, and Now Businesses". WhatsApp.com. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 "She is the company's most effective employee". Nordea News.
 "Better believe the bot boom is blowing up big for B2B, B2C businesses". VentureBeat. 2016-07-24.
 "The AI Revolution is Underway! – PM360". www.pm360online.com. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 "80% of businesses want chatbots by 2020". Business Insider. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 "A Virtual Travel Agent With All the Answers". The New York Times. 4 March 2008.
 "Chatbot vendor directory released –". www.hypergridbusiness.com.
 "Rare Carat's Watson-powered chatbot will help you put a diamond ring on it". TechCrunch. February 15, 2017.
 "10 ways you may have already used IBM Watson". VentureBeat. March 10, 2017.
 Greenfield, Rebecca (5 May 2016). "Chatbots Are Your Newest, Dumbest Co-Workers". Bloomberg.com.
 "Facebook opens its Messenger platform to chatbots". 12 April 2016.
 "Chatbot Reference Architecture". 1 January 2019.
 "How Chatbots are Transforming Wall Street and Main Street Banks?". 1 April 2019.
 "How to Manage Customer Service Technology Innovation". www.gartner.com. Archived from the original on December 11, 2019. Retrieved 2020-01-02.
 "CHATBOT INTERACTIONS IN RETAIL TO REACH 22 BILLION BY 2023, AS AI OFFERS COMPELLING NEW ENGAGEMENT SOLUTIONS". www.juniperresearch.com. Retrieved 2020-01-02.
 "Facebook launches Messenger platform with chatbots". 1 April 2019.
 "Российский банк запустил чат-бота в Facebook". 1 April 2019.
 "Absa launches 'world-first' Facebook Messenger banking". 1 April 2019.
 "The Biggest French Banks by Total Assets". Banks around the World. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
 "GAGNER DU TEMPS AVEC LE CHATBOT BANCAIRE POUR GAGNER EN INTELLIGENCE AVEC LES CONSEILLERS". Marketing Client. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
 "Meet 11 of the Most Interesting Chatbots in Banking". The Financial Brain. 14 March 2018. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
 "CHATBOTS: BOON OR BANE?". bluelupin. 9 January 2018. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
 Larson, Selena (October 11, 2016). "Baidu is bringing AI chatbots to healthcare". CNN Money.
 "AI chatbots have a future in healthcare, with caveats". AI in Healthcare.
 Palanica, Adam; Flaschner, Peter; Thommandram, Anirudh; Li, Michael; Fossat, Yan (January 3, 2019). "Physicians' Perceptions of Chatbots in Health Care: Cross-Sectional Web-Based Survey". Journal of Medical Internet Research. 21 (4): e12887. doi:10.2196/12887. PMC 6473203. PMID 30950796.
 Ahaskar, Abhijit (2020-03-27). "How WhatsApp chatbots are helping in the fight against Covid-19". Mint. Retrieved 2020-07-23.
 "India's Coronavirus Chatbot on WhatsApp Crosses 1.7 Crore Users in 10 Days". NDTV Gadgets 360. Retrieved 2020-07-23.
 Kurup, Rajesh (21 March 2020). "COVID-19: Govt of India launches a WhatsApp chatbot". Business Line. Retrieved 2020-07-23.
 "In focus: Mumbai-based Haptik which developed India's official WhatsApp chatbot for Covid-19". Hindustan Times. 7 April 2020. Retrieved 2020-07-23.
 Nadarzynski, Tom; Miles, Oliver; Cowie, Aimee; Ridge, Damien (January 1, 2019). "Acceptability of artificial intelligence (AI)-led chatbot services in healthcare: A mixed-methods study". Digital Health. 5: 2055207619871808. doi:10.1177/2055207619871808. PMC 6704417. PMID 31467682.
 "Sam, the virtual politician". Tuia Innovation.
 Wellington, Victoria University of (December 15, 2017). "Meet the world's first virtual politician". Victoria University of Wellington.
 Wagner, Meg (23 November 2017). "This virtual politician wants to run for office". CNN.
 "Talk with the first-ever robot politician on Facebook Messenger". Engadget.
 Prakash, Abishur (August 8, 2018). "AI-Politicians: A Revolution In Politics". Medium.
 SAM website
 Sternberg, Sarah (20 June 2022). "Danskere vil ind på den politiske scene med kunstig intelligens" [Danes want to enter the political scene with artificial intelligence]. Jyllands-Posten. Retrieved 2022-06-20.
 Diwakar, Amar (2022-08-22). "Can an AI-led Danish party usher in an age of algorithmic politics?". TRT World. Retrieved 2022-08-22.
 Xiang, Chloe (13 October 2022). "This Danish Political Party Is Led by an AI". Vice: Motherboard. Retrieved 2022-10-13.
 Hearing, Alice (14 October 2022). "A.I. chatbot is leading a Danish political party and setting its policies. Now users are grilling it for its stance on political landmines". Fortune.
 "Maharashtra government launches Aaple Sarkar chatbot to provide info on 1,400 public services". CNBC TV18. 5 March 2019. Retrieved 2020-07-23.
 "Government of Maharashtra launches Aaple Sarkar chatbot with Haptik". The Economic Times. Retrieved 2020-07-23.
 Aggarwal, Varun (5 March 2019). "Maharashtra launches Aaple Sarkar chatbot". Business Line. Retrieved 2020-07-23.
 Amy (2015-02-23). "Conversational Toys – The Latest Trend in Speech Technology". Virtual Agent Chat. Archived from the original on 2018-02-21. Retrieved 2016-08-11.
 NAGY, EVIE (13 February 2015). "USING TOY-TALK TECHNOLOGY, NEW HELLO BARBIE WILL HAVE REAL CONVERSATIONS WITH KIDS". Fast Company. Retrieved 18 March 2015.
 Oren Jacob, the co-founder and CEO of ToyTalk interviewed on the TV show Triangulation on the TWiT.tv network
 "Artificial intelligence script tool".
 Takahashi, Dean (23 February 2015). "Elemental's smart connected toy taps IBM's Watson supercomputer for its brains". Venture Beat. Retrieved 15 May 2015.
 "From Russia With Love" (PDF). Retrieved 2007-12-09. Psychologist and Scientific American: Mind contributing editor Robert Epstein reports how he was initially fooled by a chatterbot posing as an attractive girl in a personal ad he answered on a dating website. In the ad, the girl portrayed herself as being in Southern California and then soon revealed, in poor English, that she was actually in Russia. He became suspicious after a couple of months of email exchanges, sent her an email test of gibberish, and she still replied in general terms. The dating website is not named. Scientific American: Mind, October–November 2007, page 16–17, "From Russia With Love: How I got fooled (and somewhat humiliated) by a computer". Also available online.
 Bird, Jordan J.; Ekart, Aniko; Faria, Diego R. (June 2018). Learning from Interaction: An Intelligent Networked-based Human-bot and Bot-bot Chatbot System in: Advances in Computational Intelligence Systems (1st ed.). Nottingham, UK: Springer. pp. 179–190. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-97982-3_15. ISBN 978-3-319-97982-3. S2CID 52069140.
 "Fake News". 20 November 2018. Retrieved 2018-11-20.
 "Malicious uses". Retrieved 2016-05-11.
 "Meet 11 of the Most Interesting Chatbots in Banking". 14 March 2018. Retrieved 2019-04-01.
 Grudin, Jonathan; Jacques, Richard (2019), "Chatbots, Humbots, and the Quest for Artificial General Intelligence", Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems – CHI '19, ACM CHI 2020, pp. 209–219, doi:10.1145/3290605.3300439, ISBN 978-1-4503-5970-2, S2CID 140274744
 "How talking machines are taking call center jobs". BBC News. 23 August 2018. Retrieved 2019-04-01.
 "How chatbots are killing jobs (and creating new ones)". June 2017. Retrieved 2019-04-01.
Bibliography
Computer History Museum (2006), "Internet History—1970's", Exhibits, Computer History Museum, archived from the original on 2008-02-21, retrieved 2008-03-05
Güzeldere, Güven; Franchi, Stefano (1995-07-24), "Constructions of the Mind", Stanford Humanities Review, SEHR, Stanford University, 4 (2), retrieved 2008-03-05
Mauldin, Michael (1994), "ChatterBots, TinyMuds, and the Turing Test: Entering the Loebner Prize Competition", Proceedings of the Eleventh National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI Press, retrieved 2008-03-05 (abstract)
Network Working Group (1973), "RFC 439, PARRY Encounters the DOCTOR", Internet Engineering Task Force, Internet Society, doi:10.17487/RFC0439, retrieved 2008-03-05
Sondheim, Alan J (1997), <nettime> Important Documents from the Early Internet (1972), nettime.org, archived from the original on 2008-06-13, retrieved 2008-03-05
Turing, Alan (1950), "Computing Machinery and Intelligence", Mind, 59 (236): 433–60, doi:10.1093/mind/lix.236.433
Weizenbaum, Joseph (January 1966), "ELIZA—A Computer Program For the Study of Natural Language Communication Between Man And Machine", Communications of the ACM, 9 (1): 36–45, doi:10.1145/365153.365168, S2CID 1896290
Further reading
Searle, John (1980), "Minds, Brains and Programs", Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 3 (3): 417–457, doi:10.1017/S0140525X00005756, S2CID 55303721
Shevat, Amir (2017). Designing bots: Creating conversational experiences (First ed.). Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly Media. ISBN 978-1-4919-7482-7. OCLC 962125282.
External links
 Media related to Chatbots at Wikimedia Commons
 Conversational bots at Wikibooks
vte
Natural language processing
Portal:
icon Language
Authority control: National libraries Edit this at Wikidata	
GermanyCzech Republic
Categories: ChatbotsInstant messagingInteractive narrativeNatural language parsing
This page was last edited on 5 February 2023, at 11:47 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaMobile viewDevelopersStatisticsCookie statement


What is the universe?
The universe is everything. It includes all of space, and all the matter and energy that space contains. It even includes time itself and, of course, it includes you.
Earth and the Moon are part of the universe, as are the other planets and their many dozens of moons. Along with asteroids and comets, the planets orbit the Sun. The Sun is one among hundreds of billions of stars in the Milky Way galaxy, and most of those stars have their own planets, known as exoplanets.

The Milky Way is but one of billions of galaxies in the observable universe — all of them, including our own, are thought to have supermassive black holes at their centers. All the stars in all the galaxies and all the other stuff that astronomers can’t even observe are all part of the universe. It is, simply, everything.

Though the universe may seem a strange place, it is not a distant one. Wherever you are right now, outer space is only 62 miles (100 kilometers) away. Day or night, whether you’re indoors or outdoors, asleep, eating lunch or dozing off in class, outer space is just a few dozen miles above your head. It’s below you too. About 8,000 miles (12,800 kilometers) below your feet — on the opposite side of Earth — lurks the unforgiving vacuum and radiation of outer space.

In fact, you’re technically in space right now. Humans say “out in space” as if it’s there and we’re here, as if Earth is separate from the rest of the universe. But Earth is a planet, and it’s in space and part of the universe just like the other planets. It just so happens that things live here and the environment near the surface of this particular planet is hospitable for life as we know it. Earth is a tiny, fragile exception in the cosmos. For humans and the other things living on our planet, practically the entire cosmos is a hostile and merciless environment.


How old is Earth?
Our planet, Earth, is an oasis not only in space, but in time. It may feel permanent, but the entire planet is a fleeting thing in the lifespan of the universe. For nearly two-thirds of the time since the universe began, Earth did not even exist. Nor will it last forever in its current state. Several billion years from now, the Sun will expand, swallowing Mercury and Venus, and filling Earth’s sky. It might even expand large enough to swallow Earth itself. It’s difficult to be certain. After all, humans have only just begun deciphering the cosmos.

While the distant future is difficult to accurately predict, the distant past is slightly less so. By studying the radioactive decay of isotopes on Earth and in asteroids, scientists have learned that our planet and the solar system formed around 4.6 billion years ago.

How old is the universe?
The universe, on the other hand, appears to be about 13.8 billion years old. Scientists arrived at that number by measuring the ages of the oldest stars and the rate at which the universe expands. They also measured the expansion by observing the Doppler shift in light from galaxies, almost all of which are traveling away from us and from each other. The farther the galaxies are, the faster they’re traveling away. One might expect gravity to slow the galaxies’ motion from one another, but instead they’re speeding up and scientists don’t know why. In the distant future, the galaxies will be so far away that their light will not be visible from Earth.

Put another way, the matter, energy and everything in the universe (including space itself) was more compact last Saturday than it is today.
Put another way, the matter, energy and everything in the universe (including space itself) was more compact last Saturday than it is today. The same can be said about any time in the past — last year, a million years ago, a billion years ago. But the past doesn’t go on forever.

By measuring the speed of galaxies and their distances from us, scientists have found that if we could go back far enough, before galaxies formed or stars began fusing hydrogen into helium, things were so close together and hot that atoms couldn’t form and photons had nowhere to go. A bit farther back in time, everything was in the same spot. Or really the entire universe (not just the matter in it) was one spot.

Don't spend too much time considering a mission to visit the spot where the universe was born, though, as a person cannot visit the place where the Big Bang happened. It's not that the universe was a dark, empty space and an explosion happened in it from which all matter sprang forth. The universe didn’t exist. Space didn’t exist. Time is part of the universe and so it didn’t exist. Time, too, began with the big bang. Space itself expanded from a single point to the enormous cosmos as the universe expanded over time.

What is the universe made of?
The universe contains all the energy and matter there is. Much of the observable matter in the universe takes the form of individual atoms of hydrogen, which is the simplest atomic element, made of only a proton and an electron (if the atom also contains a neutron, it is instead called deuterium). Two or more atoms sharing electrons is a molecule. Many trillions of atoms together is a dust particle. Smoosh a few tons of carbon, silica, oxygen, ice, and some metals together, and you have an asteroid. Or collect 333,000 Earth masses of hydrogen and helium together, and you have a Sun-like star.

For the sake of practicality, humans categorize clumps of matter based on their attributes. Galaxies, star clusters, planets, dwarf planets, rogue planets, moons, rings, ringlets, comets, meteorites, raccoons — they’re all collections of matter exhibiting characteristics different from one another but obeying the same natural laws.

Related news
 Stirred, not shaken: How pebbles become planets
Scientists have begun tallying those clumps of matter and the resulting numbers are pretty wild. Our home galaxy, the Milky Way, contains at least 100 billion stars, and the observable universe contains at least 100 billion galaxies. If galaxies were all the same size, that would give us 10 thousand billion billion (or 10 sextillion) stars in the observable universe.

But the universe also seems to contain a bunch of matter and energy that we can’t see or directly observe. All the stars, planets, comets, sea otters, black holes and dung beetles together represent less than 5 percent of the stuff in the universe. About 27 percent of the remainder is dark matter, and 68 percent is dark energy, neither of which are even remotely understood. The universe as we understand it wouldn’t work if dark matter and dark energy didn’t exist, and they’re labeled “dark” because scientists can’t seem to directly observe them. At least not yet.

How has our view of the universe changed over time?
Human understanding of what the universe is, how it works and how vast it is has changed over the ages. For countless lifetimes, humans had little or no means of understanding the universe. Our distant ancestors instead relied upon myth to explain the origins of everything. Because our ancestors themselves invented them, the myths reflect human concerns, hopes, aspirations or fears rather than the nature of reality.

Several centuries ago, however, humans began to apply mathematics, writing and new investigative principles to the search for knowledge. Those principles were refined over time, as were scientific tools, eventually revealing hints about the nature of the universe. Only a few hundred years ago, when people began systematically investigating the nature of things, the word “scientist” didn’t even exist (researchers were instead called “natural philosophers” for a time). Since then, our knowledge of the universe has repeatedly leapt forward. It was only about a century ago that astronomers first observed galaxies beyond our own, and only a half-century has passed since humans first began sending spacecraft to other worlds.

In the span of a single human lifetime, space probes have voyaged to the outer solar system and sent back the first up-close images of the four giant outermost planets and their countless moons; rovers wheeled along the surface on Mars for the first time; humans constructed a permanently crewed, Earth-orbiting space station; and the first large space telescopes delivered jaw-dropping views of more distant parts of the cosmos than ever before. In the early 21st century alone, astronomers discovered thousands of planets around other stars, detected gravitational waves for the first time and produced the first image of a black hole.

With ever-advancing technology and knowledge, and no shortage of imagination, humans continue to lay bare the secrets of the cosmos. New insights and inspired notions aid in this pursuit, and also spring from it. We have yet to send a space probe to even the nearest of the billions upon billions of other stars in the galaxy. Humans haven’t even explored all the worlds in our own solar system. In short, most of the universe that can be known remains unknown.

The universe is nearly 14 billion years old, our solar system is 4.6 billion years old, life on Earth has existed for maybe 3.8 billion years, and humans have been around for only a few hundred thousand years. In other words, the universe has existed roughly 56,000 times longer than our species has. By that measure, almost everything that’s ever happened did so before humans existed. So of course we have loads of questions — in a cosmic sense, we just got here.

Related news
'All these worlds are yours'
Our first few decades of exploring our own solar system are merely a beginning. From here, just one human lifetime from now, our understanding of the universe and our place in it will have undoubtedly grown and evolved in ways we can today only imagine.



Liverpool Transfers LIVE: Bellingham holds reservations over Anfield move
39 minutes ago
Barca told to choose between Messi and Laporta 😬
1 hour ago
'Nobody knew about Barcelona before Messi!' - Leo's brother


Skip to main content
Nasa
Search NASA.gov
Search
Topics
Missions
Galleries
NASA TV
Follow NASA
Downloads
About
NASA Audiences
Latest
Related
Aug 21, 2018
What Is a Black Hole?
cygx1_ill.jpg
An artist's drawing a black hole named Cygnus X-1. It formed when a large star caved in. This black hole pulls matter from blue star beside it.
Credits: NASA/CXC/M.Weiss
blackhole_2.jpg
An artist's drawing shows the current view of the Milky Way galaxy. Scientific evidence shows that in the middle of the Milky Way is a supermassive black hole.
Credits: NASA/JPL-Caltech
Black hole Sagittarius A
This image of the center of the Milky Way galaxy was taken by the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
Credits: NASA/CXC/MIT/F.K. Baganoff et al.
sgr_lg.jpg
Sagittarius A* is the black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy.
Credits: X-ray: NASA/UMass/D.Wang et al., IR: NASA/STScI
This article is part of the NASA Knows! (Grades K-4) series.
 

A black hole is a place in space where gravity pulls so much that even light can not get out. The gravity is so strong because matter has been squeezed into a tiny space. This can happen when a star is dying.

Because no light can get out, people can't see black holes. They are invisible. Space telescopes with special tools can help find black holes. The special tools can see how stars that are very close to black holes act differently than other stars.


How Big Are Black Holes?
Black holes can be big or small. Scientists think the smallest black holes are as small as just one atom. These black holes are very tiny but have the mass of a large mountain. Mass is the amount of matter, or "stuff," in an object.

Another kind of black hole is called "stellar." Its mass can be up to 20 times more than the mass of the sun. There may be many, many stellar mass black holes in Earth's galaxy. Earth's galaxy is called the Milky Way.

The largest black holes are called "supermassive." These black holes have masses that are more than 1 million suns together. Scientists have found proof that every large galaxy contains a supermassive black hole at its center. The supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy is called Sagittarius A. It has a mass equal to about 4 million suns and would fit inside a very large ball that could hold a few million Earths.


How Do Black Holes Form?
Scientists think the smallest black holes formed when the universe began.

Stellar black holes are made when the center of a very big star falls in upon itself, or collapses. When this happens, it causes a supernova. A supernova is an exploding star that blasts part of the star into space.

Scientists think supermassive black holes were made at the same time as the galaxy they are in.


If Black Holes Are "Black," How Do Scientists Know They Are There?
A black hole can not be seen because strong gravity pulls all of the light into the middle of the black hole. But scientists can see how the strong gravity affects the stars and gas around the black hole. Scientists can study stars to find out if they are flying around, or orbiting, a black hole.

When a black hole and a star are close together, high-energy light is made. This kind of light can not be seen with human eyes. Scientists use satellites and telescopes in space to see the high-energy light.


Could a Black Hole Destroy Earth?
Black holes do not go around in space eating stars, moons and planets. Earth will not fall into a black hole because no black hole is close enough to the solar system for Earth to do that.

Even if a black hole the same mass as the sun were to take the place of the sun, Earth still would not fall in. The black hole would have the same gravity as the sun. Earth and the other planets would orbit the black hole as they orbit the sun now.

The sun will never turn into a black hole. The sun is not a big enough star to make a black hole.


How Is NASA Studying Black Holes?
NASA is using satellites and telescopes that are traveling in space to learn more about black holes. These spacecraft help scientists answer questions about the universe.


More About Black Holes
Space Place in a Snap: What Is a Black Hole?
Black Hole Rescue 
Fall Into a Black Hole

Read What Is a Black Hole? (Grades 5-8)

Return to NASA Knows! (Grades K-4)

Return to Students K-4

Heather R. Smith/NASA Educational Technology Services

Last Updated: Aug 22, 2018
Editor: Flint Wild
Read Next Related Article
Nasa
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Page Last Updated: Aug 22, 2018
NASA Official: Brian Dunbar
No Fear Act FOIA Privacy Office of Inspector General Office of Special Counsel Agency Financial Reports Contact NASA